"In English, again, it is, and this is, I think, the 11th line, as you see, the 11th line, it is
present.
The lama and the yadam are inseparably from one's own mind, mind, mind inseparable.
In the developing stages, meditate in all appearance to be as empty as moon,
rough lacun, in the water." So that is the beginnings of the Vajrayana practices.
Vajrayana practice teaching is again generally known as bodhagi, many different levels of the
teachings,
which hold a little bit of background of the Vajrayana teachings, and many different levels.
Those teachings are as we heard, and I'll give you some talk of this as is then basically known as
Hanyana teachings, all the basic Buddhism school teachings, and Mahayana teachings,
and then Vajrayana teachings. So in that way, three different ways. And within the Vajrayana
teaching,
then there are also many categories. First, what means Vajrayana?
Vajrayana is translated into English as diamond weaker, diamond weaker, weaker.
And diamond weaker is always in the teachings said, is more direct, more direct to get the
realization,
or to discover a true nature as it is, then the basic Buddhism school teachings,
and the Sauter Mahayana teachings, it's more direct, more direct. And therefore, many great masters
,
often use, say, I mean not just often, they said there is at least four different extraordinary
specials or extra onlys of the Vajrayana teachings. First is, is, is specialist of the Vajrayana is
,
is very clear clarity is special of the clarity. Second, extra only is more skilled women's,
or more techniques. Third is, no difficulties, not hardships, part extra onlys.
Fourth is, practitioners all are highly culpability, highly culpability person, that is, port,
port, extra onlys. So fourth is, more clarity. Clarity means what? Means the will, will
is more clarity, more clay, and more, more, it's completely open. Will is open. The will,
that means nature is Buddha's teaching. For example, in Hinayana teaching, what Buddha
give you, we all start. What meditation is known as egoless in the status. That is the egoless in
the status. In Mahayana teaching, what is that? Above the egoless in the status, all this phenomena
is empty. Phenomena is also empty of the solid existence. Not just the ego is solid, empty of the
solid existing. All the phenomena is, the phenomena existing is empty of the solid existence.
That's what the Sattar Mahayana teaches. In Vaidyana teaching, not just only that,
but it is totally great blissfulness. Great blissfulness. Of course, there is many different,
again, levels of the Vaidyana teachings, has different ways to explain. But I'm talking about
general meaning of this. So therefore, it's totally open. Nothing is left out in the Dzogki
will, for example, Dzogki will, or the Vaidyana will. Nothing more discover than there is, nothing.
It's totally open. Therefore, it is known as totally open or unobscure. The will is totally,
not obscure, unobscure. The will is so perfect as it is. That is the extra ordinary college of the
Vaidyana teachings. Second is, in the sense of Vaidyana teaching, in what in the Hinayana
meditation,
meditation or the basic Buddhist school in the Mahayana is known as the Shama meditation,
Vipashana meditation, which is excellent and powerful, powerful practices, powerful practices.
But Vaidyana teaching has a variety of techniques to discover that true nature.
The school means many schools, many methods, methods used to speed up our realizations,
such as then the Dzogki meditations, or such as Sa, Lung, Tomu meditations, so forth.
So many school means, this again, each Vaidyana school, there's many, as you know, many different
levels of outer tender in it, and they all have the different, but I'm talking on general scopes
of the Vaidyana. There's more techniques, meditation levels. It's not just follow one or two,
two techniques, follow. Techniques are totally open, totally open. There's nothing more
techniques sophisticated than those to speed up our enlightenment.
Therefore, this is very special. Those techniques, now those techniques, those moves,
we really come, it's also not difficult, not hard. So the, so the wheel is totally open,
meditation technique is so rich, rich, therefore, conduct level, we need apply application level,
then it is also become so easy, so, so easy, so casual, we don't have to play too much
hardships, rules, those we have to do, as did in the basic Buddhist schools or the Mahayana
teachings. Empathy in the Vaidyana teachings, we all heard that, and we read Largo Life Store
great masters, many of those great beings, are totally very enlightened beings, using all the
luxury items, every flag and so object is rich in enlightenment, such as always in the teaching,
you said, examples of the King and their Buddhists. Also, that is Contrasong Deepti.
Contrasong Deepti is the ruler of the Tibetans. That time, he was the mostly powerful, powerful
kings in the central ages, ruled every directions, territories, but yet, Contrasong Deepti become
the enlightenment. Contrasong Deepti become as great scholars. He wrote many books that which is
still in the dangerous sections of the Tibetan Buddhists, dangerous sections, wrote many books.
He read the enlightenment. He becomes one of the 900 students, and he emanates so many great
thetums, one after another, and great masters, one after another, one after another in the Tibet,
throughout the Tibetans. At the beginning, renowned one is, is Nyaranyama also, and Guru
Chudyawabza, so forth. The last renowned one is Great Enchanted. The Great Enchanted that we go,
Chancid. He was one of the renowned, renowned, the emanation of the Contrasong Deepti.
This is how the Tibetan teachings have used, applied the purple ways, keep the view perfectly,
technique properly, and then, the reaching enlightenment is, in this case, the piece of
case, the piece of case, in this case. If you really don't have techniques, read the style of the
Contrasong Deepti, for example. There's many great masters, too. Great, great practitioners, too,
that who enjoy it in the way, samsara situation, family lives, for example, great mama, the dance
letters. He was householder. He was a late practitioner. He didn't know to the caves or any places,
according to the lifestyle he spent in this, his own houses, taking care of, in a way, his family
lives. And there's many, many others. And then the renowned one always used great masters,
example, all in all, is taken in their Buddhist. And that was the time of the Buddha Shakyamuni's,
and the teachings said that. And one time, okay, I mean, all these long stories, many of you heard
and I heard too, but that's what I'm talking, talking that, that, and then one time, Buddha
Shakyamuni, he invited, I'm back to short stories, he invited Buddha Shakyamuni with all the Latin
's,
came to his course, and he was so moved by the Buddha. He must move by all that his disciples
are others. And every time at the end, in Buddhism, that ancient time, in the Vinaya time, they do,
I mean, the Buddha's time, maybe not too much in Tibet, but Sri Lanka and Thailand, they all do
these things. It's all the written in the Buddha's teaching or the Vinayas, that after you offer
the
dinner or lunch, so not dinner, lunch, lunch, that, and then all that donor will come to the,
to the middle of the, the hall and sit on the floor with great respect and then ask,
give teachings or give the Buddha, Buddha give the teachings. So he came, this king kind of
finished
all those, he came and then he, with great respect, said, how I can get, as you got the realization
,
he said, he came and everybody asked to, to Buddha, how I can get same realization as you got.
Buddha said, then you should give up your kingdom and keep, keep, give up all your luxurious items,
items, everything, and come with me, I will give the solution to you. I will give the answer.
And he said, no way, Jose. I have no plans to give up all the luckiest items, everything,
but being as heavy with all this, I like to get even, I like to get the same, every, you have
something to me, tell me. Then Buddha immediately saw his capabilities, his readiness, capabilities
,
that immediately he transformed, Buddha become not just a Buddha as like holding the graying
balls, that, that, that instantly transformed according the teaching of the different schools,
the new schools and old schools, and the new school's teachers said, instantly transformed
Gohya Samadhi status, the famous Buddha, famous Stanford Buddhas, immediately Buddha transformed
that status, and all the Arhathas who come there, they are no more Arhada, they all become the
assembly mandala of the great Samadhi, Samadhyas, and he gave the teaching, he gave the other,
were the other teachers. As he received the teaching, he practiced them, and the teaching
said that within that lifetime, that in that Buddha himself, all the queens and kingdoms,
the assembly of everyone as, as group, they reach that enlightenment, they become enlightened
within
that lifetime. That is the, what the beauty of the Vadiyana teaches, so fast, so quick,
so speed, and then of course, you know the ambient path is so fast, so quick,
even in plot, the highway, diamond path is. In the country, there is called diamond path, I mean,
you know, right? That is really speed, but you have to qualify it, that's the one. You have to
qualify,
that's the, of course, you said that. You have to qualify, if you qualify it, diamond path is speed
.
That's how the Vadiyana teaching is, it's called diamond weaker, it's really diamond weaker.
That's it. So therefore, this, this is, therefore, the techniques and therefore,
as the conduct level is not heart-shaped, difficult, it is very
easy, commonness, have you applied the skill that, practically or properly, the techniques and the
will use, and says that this is the special, and then qualification of the practice, will practice,
they are all quite high capability practice, quite high capability, intelligence. To make this
intelligence, to make ourselves that qualification, qualification is not just the reading on the
stone,
qualification is a mental attitude, in this case, it's not something out of feature that we have to
change, qualification is our openness of the mind, our courage, our commitment, and our devotions,
that is, we call it, that we can increase, because we all have the buddha nature, buddha nature is
full up, fully kept, buddha nature is not outside, we're not talking outside, call it, we're
talking
each of our own nature of the mind, our own mind, nature of the mind, each of our own nature of
mind
is buddha nature, buddha nature has in the teachings, and it completed according to jokti
teaching, it has all kayas and vistams, everything is complete, all kayas and vistams,
those kayas, what that means, of course, also what you own, not kayas, dharmakaya, sambokaya, namak
aya,
and sopavakaya, and also in some cases, if we do five, then it's called enlightened kayas,
all is complete, all is complete in our support and in the seat, in our nature of the mind,
your nature of the mind, this kaya is not just a kind of like, kaya, kaya means in a way a kind of
forms, but form is not just form, object, it has all the intelligence, the vistams, smartness,
smarts, all this, that is not in the buddha's teaching or in mayana teaching, in medhana teaching,
the five vistams is completed, five vistams are completed, the dharmadattu vistams,
medhala vistams, and equanimity vistams, discrimination, awareness vistams,
the whole accomplished vistams, all are completed, exactly as as buddha shaktamuni has, as
gurupenma sambok has, we are not missing, not nothing is missing outside, it's all needed,
and therefore when we receive the teaching of the vedayana, when we receive the teaching of the
view,
meditation, and the applications, our capability will grow, our capability opening, developing,
is settling, activating, activating, therefore capability is not stopped, to open that
capabilities, what need, as I said already, courage, commitment, the fearlessness,
courage, commitment, fearlessness, free from doubt, and hesitation,
hesitations, intellectual conduct, in quality, so many, where we are practicing, you can put
in courage and analyzation and all the doubt, doubt has generated in the buddha teaching,
said that's true, one type, doubt has two aspects.